[expo-application] create expo-application unimodule (#5008)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/application.md

---
title: Application
---

> This module provides useful information about the native application, such the bundle ID, app name, and build version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module provides useful information about the native application, such its ID, app name, and build version.
```

## Installation

This API is pre-installed in [managed](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#managed-workflow) apps. To use it in a [bare](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow) React Native app, follow its [installation instructions](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/packages/expo-device).

## API

```js
import * as Application from 'expo-application';
```

### Constants

- [`Application.applicationName`](#applicationapplicationname)
- [`Application.bundleId`](#applicationbundleid)
- [`Application.nativeAppVersion`](#applicationnativeappversion)
- [`Application.nativeBuildVersion`](#applicationnativebuildversion)
- [`Application.androidId`](#applicationandroidid) (Android only)

### Methods

- [`Application.getIosIdForVendorAsync()`](#applicationgetiosidforvendorasync) (iOS only)
- [`Application.getInstallReferrerAsync()`](#applicationgetinstallreferrerasync) (Android only)
- [`Application.getFirstInstallTimeAsync()`](#applicationgetfirstinstalltimeasync)
- [`Application.getLastUpdateTimeAsync()`](#applicationgetlastupdatetimeasync) (Android only)

## Constants

### `Application.applicationName`

> The human-readable name of the application.

Reviewer: Need to be comprehensive -- the easy stuff is easy to guess anyway so most of the value in the docs is the stuff that's hard to find out.

```suggestion
The human-readable name of the application that is displayed with the app's icon on the device's home screen or desktop. On Android and iOS, this value is a string unless the name could not be retrieved, in which case this value will be null. On web this value is null.
```

- e.g., `Expo`, `Yelp`, `Instagram`

### `Application.bundleId`

> The bundle ID of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ID of the application. On Android, this is the application ID. On iOS this is the bundle ID. On web, this is null.
```

- e.g., `com.cocoacasts.scribbles`, `com.apple.Pages`

> ### `Application.nativeAppVersion`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `Application.nativeApplicationVersion`
```

(unabbreviate consistently)

> The `Info.plist` value for `CFBundleShortVersionString` on iOS and the version name set by `version` in app.json on Android at the time the native app was built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The human-readable version of the native application that may be displayed in the app store. This is the `Info.plist` value for `CFBundleShortVersionString` on iOS and the version name set by `version` in app.json on Android at the time the native app was built. On web, this value is null.
```

- e.g., `2.11.0`

### `Application.nativeBuildVersion`

> The `Info.plist` value for `CFBundleVersion` on iOS (set with `ios.buildNumber` value in `app.json` in a standalone app) and the version code set by `android.versionCode` in app.json on Android at the time the native app was built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The internal build version of the native application that the app store may use to distinguish between different binaries. This is the `Info.plist` value for `CFBundleVersion` on iOS (set with `ios.buildNumber` value in `app.json` in a standalone app) and the version code set by `android.versionCode` in app.json on Android at the time the native app was built. On web, this value is null.
```

> - e.g., `2.11.0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- e.g., `2.11.0.16344`
```

### `Application.androidId`

> **Android only.** A hexademical `string` unique to each combination of app-signing key, user, and device. The value may change if a factory reset is performed on the device or if an APK signing key changes. For more information about how the platform handles ANDROID_ID in Android 8.0 (API level 26) and higher, see [Android 8.0 Behavior Changes.](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/oreo/android-8.0-changes.html#privacy-all)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Android only.** The value of [`Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/provider/Settings.Secure.html#ANDROID_ID). This is a hexademical `string` unique to each combination of app-signing key, user, and device. The value may change if a factory reset is performed on the device or if an APK signing key changes. For more information about how the platform handles `ANDROID_ID` in Android 8.0 (API level 26) and higher, see [Android 8.0 Behavior Changes.](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/oreo/android-8.0-changes.html#privacy-all)
```

Note: In versions of the platform lower than Android 8.0 (API level 26), this value remains constant for the lifetime of the user's device.

> See: https://developer.android.com/reference/android/provider/Settings.Secure.html#ANDROID_ID

Reviewer: Remove this after linking it above.

- e.g., `"dd96dec43fb81c97"`

## Methods

### `Application.getIosIdForVendorAsync()`

> **iOS only.** Gets the iOS identifier for vender [(IDFV)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uidevice/1620059-identifierforvendor) value, an alphanumeric string that uniquely identifies a device to the app’s vendor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**iOS only.** Gets the iOS identifier for vendor [(IDFV)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uidevice/1620059-identifierforvendor) value, an alphanumeric string that uniquely identifies a device to the app’s vendor.
```

Also need to document that, when, and why this could be null.

> Since this is the IDFV value, its value can change if all apps from the current apps vendor have been uninstalled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OS will change the vendor identifier if all apps from the current apps' vendor have been uninstalled.
```

#### Returns

A `Promise` that resolves to a `string` of the IDFV for the app.

**Examples**

```js
await Application.getIosIdForVendorAsync();

> //"FCDBD8EF-62FC-4ECB-B2F5-92C9E79AC7F9"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// "FCDBD8EF-62FC-4ECB-B2F5-92C9E79AC7F9"
```

```

### `Application.getInstallReferrerAsync()`

> **Android only.** Gets the referrer URL of the installed app with [`Install Referrer API`](https://developer.android.com/google/play/installreferrer) from Google Play Store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Android only.** Gets the referrer URL of the installed app with [`Install Referrer API`](https://developer.android.com/google/play/installreferrer) from the Google Play Store.
```

#### Returns

A `Promise` that resolves to a `string` of the referrer URL of the installed app.

**Examples**

```js
await Application.getInstallReferrerAsync();

> //"utm_source=google-play&utm_medium=organic"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// "utm_source=google-play&utm_medium=organic"
```

```

### `Application.getFirstInstallTimeAsync()`

> Gets the first time the app was installed onto the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the time the app was first ever installed onto the device.
```

(is this accurate? and how does it work with multiple user accounts?) What about web?

#### Returns

Returns a `Promise` that resolves to a `Date` object that represents the first time the app was installed on the device.

**Examples**

```js
await Application.getFirstInstallTimeAsync();
// 2019-07-18T18:08:26.121Z
```

### `Application.getLastUpdateTimeAsync()`

> **Android only.** Gets the last time the app was updated from the App store or Play Store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Android only.** Gets the last time the app was updated from the Google Play Store.
```
(this is android-only)

#### Returns

> Returns a `Promise` that resolves to a `Date` object that represents the last time the app was updated via the App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a `Promise` that resolves to a `Date` object that represents the last time the app was updated via the Google Play Store (Android).
```

### `Application.applicationId`

The ID of the application. On Android, this is the application ID. On iOS, this is the bundle ID. On web, this is `null`.

- e.g., "`com.cocoacasts.scribbles`, `com.apple.Pages`"

### `Application.nativeApplicationVersion`

The human-readable version of the native application that may be displayed in the app store. This is the `Info.plist` value for `CFBundleShortVersionString` on iOS and the version name set by `version` in app.json on Android at the time the native app was built. On web, this value is `null`.

- e.g., "`2.11.0`"

### `Application.nativeBuildVersion`

The internal build version of the native application that the app store may use to distinguish between different binaries. This is the `Info.plist` value for `CFBundleVersion` on iOS (set with `ios.buildNumber` value in `app.json` in a standalone app) and the version code set by `android.versionCode` in app.json on Android at the time the native app was built. On web, this value is `null`. Note that the return type on Android will a `number` and the return type on iOS will be a `string`.

- e.g., `iOS: "2.11.0", Android: 114`

### `Application.androidId`

> **Android only.** The value of [`Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/provider/Settings.Secure.html#ANDROID_ID). This is a hexademical `string` unique to each combination of app-signing key, user, and device. The value may change if a factory reset is performed on the device or if an APK signing key changes. For more information about how the platform handles `ANDROID_ID` in Android 8.0 (API level 26) and higher, see [Android 8.0 Behavior Changes.](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/oreo/android-8.0-changes.html#privacy-all) On iOS and Web, this value is `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Android only.** The value of [`Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/provider/Settings.Secure.html#ANDROID_ID). This is a hexademical `string` unique to each combination of app-signing key, user, and device. The value may change if a factory reset is performed on the device or if an APK signing key changes. For more information about how the platform handles `ANDROID_ID` in Android 8.0 (API level 26) and higher, see [Android 8.0 Behavior Changes.](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/oreo/android-8.0-changes.html#privacy-all) On iOS and web, this value is `null`.
```

- e.g., `"dd96dec43fb81c97"`

## Methods

### `Application.getIosIdForVendorAsync()`

**iOS only.** Gets the iOS identifier for vender [(IDFV)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uidevice/1620059-identifierforvendor) value, an alphanumeric string that uniquely identifies a device to the app’s vendor. If returned value is `nil`, wait and retrieve this value later. This might happen when the device has been restarted before the user has unlocked the device.

The OS will change the vendor identifier if all apps from the current apps vendor have been uninstalled.

#### Returns

A `Promise` that resolves to a `string` of the IDFV for the app.

**Examples**

```js
await Application.getIosIdForVendorAsync();
// "FCDBD8EF-62FC-4ECB-B2F5-92C9E79AC7F9"
```

### `Application.getInstallReferrerAsync()`

**Android only.** Gets the referrer URL of the installed app with the [`Install Referrer API`](https://developer.android.com/google/play/installreferrer) from the Google Play Store.

#### Returns

A `Promise` that resolves to a `string` of the referrer URL of the installed app.

**Examples**

```js
await Application.getInstallReferrerAsync();

> // "utm_source=google-play&utm_medium=organic"

Reviewer 2: This is all the result that we log out from `installReferrer `.

```

### `Application.getInstallationTimeAsync()`

> Gets the time the app was first installed onto the device. The time would change to the reinstalled date if uninstall and reinstall the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the time the app was installed onto the device, not counting subsequent updates. If the app is uninstalled and reinstalled, this method returns the time the app was reinstalled.
```

#### Returns

Returns a `Promise` that resolves to a `Date` object that represents the last time the app was updated via the Google Play Store (Android).

**Examples**

```js
await Application.getLastUpdateTimeAsync();
// 2019-07-18T21:20:16.887Z
```

## Error Codes

| Code                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | ERR_APPLICATION_PACKAGE_NAME_NOT_FOUND            | Error code thrown for `firstInstallTimeAsync` and `lastUpdateTimeAsync`. This may be thrown if the package information or package name could not be retrieved.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ERR_APPLICATION_PACKAGE_NAME_NOT_FOUND            | Error code thrown by `getInstallationTimeAsync ` and `getLastUpdateTimeAsync`. This may be thrown if the package information or package name could not be retrieved.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

| ERR_APPLICATION_INSTALL_REFERRER_CONNECTION       | A connection could not be established to the Google Play Store                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ERR_APPLICATION_INSTALL_REFERRER_REMOTE_EXCEPTION | A `RemoteException` was thrown after a connection was established to the Play Store. This may happen if the process hosting the remote object is no longer available, which usually means the process crashed. See https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3156389/android-remoteexceptions-and-services.                                                                                         |

> | ERR_APPLICATION_INSTALL_REFERRER                  | General default case error code for the `getInstallReferrerAsync` method. This error code will be thrown if an exception occured for the install referrer, but the exception was none of the errors above. The [`responseCode`](https://developer.android.com/reference/com/android/installreferrer/api/InstallReferrerClient.InstallReferrerResponse.html) is provided along with the error. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ERR_APPLICATION_INSTALL_REFERRER                  | General default case error code for the `getInstallReferrerAsync` method. This error code will be thrown if an exception occurred when getting the install referrer, but the exception was none of the more precise errors. The [`responseCode`](https://developer.android.com/reference/com/android/installreferrer/api/InstallReferrerClient.InstallReferrerResponse.html) is provided along with the error. |
```

> | ERR_APPLICATION_INSTALL_REFERRER_SERVICE_DISCONNECTED | Connection to the install referrer service was lost. This error is thrown when an attempt was made to connect and set up the install referrer service, but the connection was lost. See the [Android documentation](https://developer.android.com/reference/com/android/installreferrer/api/InstallReferrerStateListener) for more information|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ERR_APPLICATION_INSTALL_REFERRER_SERVICE_DISCONNECTED | Connection to the install referrer service was lost. This error is thrown when an attempt was made to connect and set up the install referrer service, but the connection was lost. See the [Android documentation](https://developer.android.com/reference/com/android/installreferrer/api/InstallReferrerStateListener) for more information. |
```

## API

```js
import * as Application from 'expo-application';
```

### Constants

- [`Application.applicationName`](#applicationapplicationname)
- [`Application.bundleId`](#applicationbundleid)
- [`Application.nativeApplicationVersion`](#applicationnativeapplicationversion)
- [`Application.nativeBuildVersion`](#applicationnativebuildversion)
- [`Application.androidId`](#applicationandroidid) (Android only)

### Methods

- [`Application.getIosIdForVendorAsync()`](#applicationgetiosidforvendorasync) (iOS only)
- [`Application.getInstallReferrerAsync()`](#applicationgetinstallreferrerasync) (Android only)
- [`Application.getFirstInstallTimeAsync()`](#applicationgetfirstinstalltimeasync)
- [`Application.getLastUpdateTimeAsync()`](#applicationgetlastupdatetimeasync) (Android only)

## Constants

### `Application.applicationName`

The human-readable name of the application that is displayed with the app's icon on the device's home screen or desktop. On Android and iOS, this value is a `string` unless the name could not be retrieved, in which case this value will be `null`. On web this value is `null`.

- e.g., `Expo`, `Yelp`, `Instagram`

### `Application.bundleId`

> The ID of the application. On Android, this is the application ID. On iOS, this is the bundle ID. On web, this is `null`.

Reviewer: Android calls this the application ID: https://developer.android.com/studio/build/application-id

> The ID of the application. On Android, this is the application ID. On iOS, this is the bundle ID. On web, this is `null`.

Reviewer 3: oh, oops -- ignore my previous comment as well then
